#Perl

As previously noted, Perl has two main branches: Perl 5 and Perl 6. These instructions are for Perl 5.

# Installation

There are two main distributions of Perl 5: ActivePerl and Strawberry Perl. Both versions
are available from https://www.perl.org/get.html. While both versions install Perl on your computer,
the primary difference is the way that add-ons and libraries are installed, and that Strawberry Perl is
only available for Windows. However, there is an Intergrated Development Environment (IDE) for
Perl called “Padre”, available from http://padre.perlide.org/ which includes Strawberry Perl in its
installation and can be installed on any system (though certain modern versions of Linux are
incompatible. So before installing Perl, you should look at the next section and determine how you
want to write your Perl code (assuming that you have options).


#Creating and Running Perl

Perl can be written in any text editor, though it is easier to write in a text editor that has syntax
highlighting, such as TextPad, NotePad++, or Kate (for Linux). If you choose to install Perl and write
it in a text editor, then you will need to use the command line to find and run your programs. From the
command line, you run your program like this:

'''
perl <myprogram>.pl
'''

If this line give you a message that “perl is not a recognized command” or something similar, then you
have to make sure that Perl is installed and added to your PATH environment variable. Most systems
do this automatically when Perl is installed, however.

If you prefer to not use the command line, there is also an IDE for Perl called Padre, which allows you
to write Perl code in the text window, and then hit the “Play” button to see if your code is working.
Padre has syntax highlighting, debugging, and autocomplete abilities.

#Writing Perl

Perl does not have a lot of boilerplate, though it is traditional to start each Perl script with the “sh-bang”
line:

'''
#!perl
'''

On some systems, this line includes the address of the Perl installation, so that it can be run more
efficiently, though this is not required on most modern systems. The # symbol is used to start
comments in Perl.To write “Hello, World!”, the entire program looks like this:

'''
#!perl
print “Hello, World!”;
'''

This is simply the aforementioned sh-bang line, followed by a line that called the print command, the
string “Hello, World” denoted by quotes, and a semi-colon which ends the line.

#Sources

http://padre.perlide.org/, Accessed Jan. 21, 2016

https://www.perl.org/get.html, Accessed Jan. 21, 2016
